Nanami is a tall, well-built man with blonde hair styled with a neat part. Nanami has very thin eyebrows as well as small eyes that are usually covered by his signature sunglasses, which don't have arms that wrap around the ears.

Befitting a former office worker, Nanami is usually fully dressed in a business suit. His usual suit consists of a blue dress shirt underneath a tan blazer with matching slacks and light shoes. Attached to his dress shirt, there is a holster that sheaths Nanami's blunt sword, hidden by the back of his blazer. He also sports a necktie that shares the same dotted pattern as the bandages around his blunt sword.

After graduating from Jujutsu High and working for corporate, Nanami wore a vertical striped jacket over a white button-down shirt and dark-colored tie with white dots all over it, vertical striped pants, and black shoes. As a student, Nanami wore a normal Jujutsu High uniform. His hair was styled slightly differently when he was younger.

During the Shibuya Incident, Nanami loses an eye fighting Dagon and he is later left in a horrific state with half of his flesh and his entire hair burnt off on the left side after encountering Jogo.

Nanami is a model example of what a grade 1 jujutsu sorcerer should be. Yuji and Takuma Ino both look up to Nanami for his demeanor when actively approaching a difficult situation as well as his incredible skill when it comes down to solving it. Satoru Gojo entrusted Nanami with looking after Yuji due to these traits as well and it paid off well for Yuji's growth. Ino, a powerful grade 2 sorcerer, approaches every tough decision with "what would Nanami do" in mind because he believes Nanami always handles things the right way.

hen it comes to combat ability, Nanami is capable of fighting on par with special grade cursed spirits such as Mahito. While Mahito was still in the infancy of his existence, Nanami was able to keep up in several of the exchanges. With a lack of information on Mahito's ability, Nanami suffered a direct blow to his soul but was still able to survive, something no one Mahito faced before had been able to do. Mahito himself considered Nanami to be exceptionally strong and a worthy opponent, far stronger than the average sorcerer.

During the Shibuya Incident, Nanami showcased his leadership ability alongside great intellect and fighting strength. Upon learning about Satoru's sealing, Nanami was able to deduce what would be the best move for his team and helped carry out Mechamaru's rescue plan without delay. Understanding that Kiyotaka Ijichi and the managers are crucial for communication in a large-scale mission, Nanami went alone to put protocols for the operation in place while also delegating the others on another task.