Kikoru appears as an arrogant and prideful girl who is very confident in her ability to look down on people and humiliate those she deems inferior without second thought. Kikoru is also a very persistent and determined person, working hard to constantly improve herself and becoming stronger and more useful whenever she can. Even towards superior officers, she still manages to show her confidence, although in a much more polite and less arrogant way.

Despite this more evident trait, Kikoru deep down cares about her comrades and does whatever in her power to avoid casualties or injuries whenever she's on the battlefield. She is also a loyal person, showing gratitude towards Kafka Hibino for saving her, and keeping his secret. Even if it's hidden by her proud and unafraid nature, she cares for her allies well-being and goes as far as needed to ensure their safety or simply to support them.

It is revealed that Kikoru used to be very fond of her parents' work as Defense Force members, and this brought her to desire to join the Force herself. However, every since Hikari Shinomiya's death, Kikoru grew a hidden yet large sense of insecurity that brought her to push herself to get stronger and stronger, in order to keep the promise made to her mother. This, in tandem with Isao Shinomiya's overly high expectations on Kikoru, cause her to constantly feel the need to get stronger to avoid the death of anyone around her. Her relationship with her father and everything regarding her family as a whole seem to make her insecure and hesitant, easily breaking down in despair. This feelings obviously increased ever since Isao's death with her wish to get stronger growing again due to living the same trauma twice. Hidden in Kikoru's subconscious, in fact, lies her obsessive desire of being praised by her parents and grant their approval, fueling her will to become stronger in order to prove to be worthy of their praise.

Kikoru appears to be very polite and professional when speaking to higher ups and superiors, being probably used to speaking to military officers due to her upbringing.