Sukuna is a tall and muscular man with four arms, four eyes, and a large mouth on his stomach. He has short pink-red hair and red eyes, with his two right eyes being angled differently and located on a white flesh plate-like structure on the right side of his face. His body is also covered in tattoos, which manifest on his vessel whenever he is in control and are naturally present in his true form. The tattoos are mostly black lines on his wrists, upper arms, upper body, abdomen, and face. Black dots are also tattooed on each his shoulders. When these tattoos manifest on a vessel with two arms, the lines encircling the upper arms and wrists are doubled, and circles form around the black dots on the shoulders. Sukuna's monstrous appearance led many to describe him as a demon with four arms and two faces. In the past and present, Sukuna only wears a pair of pants, as his unique body prevents him from wearing clothes for the upper body.

Previously, Sukuna took on the appearance of his former host: Yuji Itadori, but with pink spiked hair slightly pushed upfront and his tattoos manifested. His incarnation also caused Yuji to have a second pair of eyes underneath his normal eyes, which were usually closed but opened when he took control. Inside his innate domain, Sukuna wore a light-colored kimono with a black edge, a black scarf, and black sandals.

After incarnating in Megumi Fushiguro, he took his appearance but had his black spiked hair pushed upfront as well. Similar to Yuji, a second pair of eyes grew underneath his normal eyes and his tattoos manifested on Megumi's body. He wore a black haori with a white kimono and black undershirt underneath tied together with a black belt, white pants, and black sandals. He discarded the haori during his battle with Satoru Gojo.

Sukuna is selfish, cold-hearted, immoral, and exceptionally sadistic. When he was reincarnated shortly after Yuji ingested his finger, he commented, implying the slaughter of women and children and likening them to maggots crawling around. Due to his immense power, he rarely cares about the consequences of his actions, even if these affect his host, Yuji Itadori. In fact, he frequently taunts and insults Yuji, calling him a brat and even laughing at or enjoying Yuji's despair on multiple occasions.

Sukuna is aware of his immense power and is quite arrogant about it, brutalizing a finger bearer while being patronizing and proclaiming his superiority over it. For this reason, he is highly dismissive of his opponents and rarely takes them seriously, even explicitly stating he would kill Satoru Gojo to his face. However, these brutish traits are not to be confused for stupidity. Sukuna is highly intelligent and manipulative, taking Yuji's body hostage by tearing out his heart to force him into a Binding Vow. He has also displayed the ability to acknowledge and praise his opponents, as shown by how before killing Jogo Sukuna acknowledged his strength despite having completely overpowered him and told Jogo that he should be proud.

Through Sukuna's conversation with Yuji during their fight after possessing Megumi's body, Sukuna espouses that he likens human beings to insects and admits he is unable to comprehend why the weak cling so desperately to life instead of quietly accepting the suffering that life forces them to endure since the weak should have no right to complain. He also claims that he doesn't understand how a creature that falls apart at a touch can say that it always wants to be happy, which expresses his antipathy and disregard of human emotions and their will to live. It also reveals that Sukuna's perception of life adheres strongly to social darwinism. It is also repeatedly stated that Sukuna has a myopic view on love and does not comprehend the value of relationships.